Step 1 :Create an Application Load Balancer 

Navigate to EC2 > Load Balancers. 

Click Create Load Balancer. 

Click the Create button under the Application Load Balancer and set the following values: 

Name: TESTALB 

Scheme: internet-facing 

IP address type: ipv4 

Load Balancer Protocol: HTTP 

Port: 80 

Select the VPC. 

Add the us-east-1a and us-east-1b AZs to your ALB. 

Click Next: Configure Security Settings 

Note: Skip this screen, as we are not using HTTPS. 

Click Next: Configure Security Groups. 

Select to Create a new security group for your ALB, and set the following values: 

Name: ALBSG 

Description: ALBSG 

The default value allows standard HTTP traffic from 0.0.0.0/0 and ::/0 (IPV6), so leave as it. 

Click Next: Configure Routing and enter the following values: 

Name: ALBTG 

Target type: Instance 

Protocol: HTTP 

Port: 80 

Expand Advanced health check settings, and reduce the healthy and unhealthy threshold checks down to 2. 

This means the load balancer can respond faster and instances come into service and vice versa. 

Click Next: Register Targets. 

Click Next: Review. 

 

Note - Note of the DNS name associated with the load balancer. If you open it, you will get 503 errors because we don't have any EC2 instances associated with the load balancer. 

 
 
 

Step 2: Create a Launch Template 

Create an SSH key pair that the EC2 instances will use to control access. We will use the key pair to connect to the EC2 instances in order to perform load testing: 

Navigate to EC2 > Network & Security > Key Pairs. 

Click Create Key Pair. 

Call it MYKP, and download the file to your local machine. 

Create a security group for EC2 instances 

This security group will allow us to SSH into the instances and it will allow the ALB to point frontend connections to the instances over port 80. 

Navigate to EC2 > Network & Security > Security Groups. 

Click Create Security Group. 

The name and description are EC2WEBSG. 

Set the VPC to the lab VPC. 

Add a rule allowing SSH from 0.0.0.0/0  

Add a rule allowing HTTP from the Security Group ID of the security group for the ALB created in the previous video. 

Create a security group. 

Create a launch template that will be used by the Auto Scaling group. The launch template defines what the instances are and how they are created. 

*****

Navigate to EC2 > Instances > Launch Templates. 

Create a new template, and call it MYLT for the name and description. 

Search for "AMI", and pick the Amazon Linux 2 AMI (64-bit x86). 

Set the instance type as t2.micro. 

Select the key pair you created earlier. 

The network type is VPC. 

Select the EC2WEBSG security group you created earlier. 

Storage should automatically be populated with a volume, so leave that as default and don't add anything to the network section. 

Expand Advanced Details, and paste the user data below - 
 
#!/bin/bash 
yum update -y 
yum install -y httpd.x86_64 
systemctl start httpd.service 
systemctl enable httpd.service 
echo “Hello World from $(hostname -f)” > /var/www/html/index.html 

Note: These are commands to install a web server and download website content. 

Click Create Launch Template. 

Click Close. 

Page Break
 

Step 3: Create an Auto Scaling Group 

Note: load balancer should be ready at this point. 

EC2 > Auto Scaling > Auto Scaling Groups 

Click Create Auto Scaling group. 

Call the group MYASG. 

Select Launch Template, and choose the template you just created. 

Select Adhere to Launch Template. 

Pick the VPC and select us-east-1a and us-east-1b as subnets. 

Click Next. 

Check Enable load balancing. 

Select target group ALBTG. 

Leave the default for Health checks. 

Select Enable group metrics collection with CloudWatch. 

For Group Size, enter the following values: 

Desired Capacity: 2 

Minimum Capacity: 2 

Maximum Capacity: 6 

For Scaling Policies, select Target tracking scaling policy and enter the following values: 

Scaling Policy Name: Target Tracking Policy 

Metric type: Average CPU utilization 

Target value: 30 

Instances need: 300 

Click Next. 

Click Create Auto Scaling Group. 